Review 1
Rating : 9/10
Title : Beautifully computer-animated fairy tale: a gentle morality play, very skillfully done.
Author : nickfortis
Date : 26 January 2005
Review : I'm an old dude, 75 to be exact, and in my working days I was everything from a mainframe programmer to a HiTech startup Tech Admin. This sentence is here only to show why I am interested in the productions of Dreamworks and, of course, Pixar. Coming from a computer background permits me to be very, very impressed with the wonderful skill and creativity that go into making movies such as Shreck.Now then: The movie itself is marvelous! The characters are gentle and funny; there is no gratuitous violence; there are innuendos, of course, but skillfully done in a way that the "libretto" if you will can be "read" at least two levels. The story line itself is charming, and the ending is a real, nifty surprise!I add here that I've watched this with my younger G_Kids, who loved it; and also with my bride of fifty years, who loved it.It is in all ways in a class with the best that Mr. Jobs has so far produced, which is saying a great deal.HIGHLY recommended as good, funny, charming entertainment for a whole bunch of ages.Nick Fortis Los Altos California

Review 2
Rating : No rating for this review
Title : Left-field fairy tale left us rolling in the aisles
Author : agc110
Date : 17 June 2001
Review : 9 OUT OF 10!!!! We went to catch the matinee preview of "Shrek". We were still giggling by the time we got home afterwards. Two hours later, we dragged a friend out and went back for the evening show. Some of the shock value was lost, but we caught a few of the background sight gags we missed the first time, and anticipation of some of the other scenes had us in tears before they even happened. Interesting to see the different audience reactions of different age groups, too. This is a *very* funny movie, but it should be noted that most of the kiddy humour is on the burp/fart and yucky dining habits level - Shrek is rather closely related to Raymond Briggs' Fungus the Bogeyman without the orange mohawk. The dialogue and main action quips are mainly aimed at adults and sophisticated kids. One little voice in the afternoon audience piping up "WHAT's he compensating for?" cracked me up...Be warned that this movie is a non-stop send-up of all things Disney. If predictability and saccharine is your cup of tea, you may not like it. On the other hand, if you are cynical about theme parks and like the idea of fairytale classics getting the Monty Python treatment, you'll love it. Every time a scene looks familiar, it means it is about to go pear-shaped. And it's not just old classics that get the treatment. I spotted (mis)quotes from films that are just being released, both Disney and non-Disney. You name it, it gets an affectionate pie in the face at some point in "Shrek".As a fairytale, however offbeat, "Shrek" is tighter plotted and better characterised than most Hollywood dross.The parodic twists, a love story subplot that owes more to Shakespeare's comedies than fairytale formula, and the "ugly is the new beautiful" Message more than make up for the derivativeness due to extensive quotation.As for the acting, confinement to voice-overs keeps the egos of Myers and Murphy in check, and they do a fantastic job as the big fat green smelly recluse and the obnoxiously manic donkey respectively. Diaz is great as a feisty princess who reminds me of Lloyd Alexander's Eilonwy crossed with Lara Croft. Lithgow's Farquaad is a wonderful Bad Guy, modelled on Olivier's Richard III apart from his Little Problem being different. And the Fairytale Creatures...excellent, all of them. The graphics, of course, are state of the art for at least another 2 weeks. We're talking freckles, skin pores and stubble, pupil dilation, and amazing light-and-shade. They had to tone down the realism of the humanoids to stop them looking creepily android-like.Highly recommended, except for overly precious schmalz addicts.

Review 3
Rating : 10/10
Title : Brilliant humor!
Author : smashattack
Date : 8 September 2002
Review : Shrek is completely new.  Never has a fully CGI movie taken on the twists, turns, and surprises as Shrek has.  It's a full parody of numerous fairytales, and its humor is, well, humor at its best.  Grown men will laugh at the jokes of Farquaad's Stature and the hidden meaning behind every little comment.  Of course Shrek, like all other movies, has its emotional moments (so what if I lied about it being completely new?).  And these moments aren't cheesy or anything.  They are kind of funny, but at the time of viewing you won't really feel like laughing.  You'll feel like the characters.Like its CGI, Shrek has taken a new dimension.  It stretches out.  You're in the movie.  No, wait, you're watching a movie.  It's so hard to tell.  The characters are so real, so lifelike, it makes you feel you're there.  The environments are realistic, yet still animated.  The wind whispers through the grasslands and the characters' hair; the lightning and clouds are really there... aren't they?I was stunned and absorbed in this movie.  And unlike other movies, it has more than just CGI.  It's actually got a plot.  And what a plot it's got! This one is totally new.  Shrek is ordered to rescue a princess from the fiery keep guarded by a dragon in order to clear out his swamp of the menacing fairytale creatures.But it doesn't stop there.  The movie is full of surprises and stretches on further into what actually happens after.  The dialogue demands your attention throughout the movie, and then the dragon comes in.  Whenever you see the dragon, you'll know good things are bound to happen (but not necessarily for the characters in the movie).  The dragon is a comic relief, but still provides most of the action in the movie.  She chases Donkey and Shrek through the keep, she flies to help rescue Fiona from a despicable marriage, and she even has the satisfaction of swallowing a midget.Now some disputes have arisen about certain things.  But I must say what I always say:  this is only a movie, and it has no deeper meaning (despite the parodies).  Take it as it is.  There can be nothing offensive from Shrek unless you have something against overthrowing tyrants and good-natured humor.I must take a moment to speak about Donkey.  He is, and always will be, one of my most favorite characters in the world of movies.  Eddie Murphy was, no doubt, the perfect actor for him.  He is so funny, so unique, and so... fluffy.  What a perfect donkey!  His design is flawless and his dialogue perfect.  I can find nothing bad about this character.Shrek is perfect for everybody to see.  The little ones will love the vivid colors and lush landscapes.  The adults will enjoy this as well as the intelligent humor and deep plot.  And no one could dislike the arrangement of songs.  They fit really nice into the movie.  Harry Gregson-Williams and John Powell's composed music is impressive (especially the theme for Escape from the Dragon).Shrek is brilliant moviemaking.  With a groundbreaking DVD, an all-star cast, great music, excellent graphics, and a great parodized yet original plot and storyline, Shrek is no doubt one of the best movies I've ever seen.

Review 4
Rating : 10/10
Title : A Cinematic Masterpiece
Author : bsmith-97240
Date : 31 July 2018
Review : This movie really confronts the problems with society, such as the opioid crisis, domestic abuse, and donkey mistreatment head-on. It was a great way to talk about these issues with my teenage son.

Review 5
Rating : 8/10
Title : State-of-the-art computer animation used to tell a cracking little story
Author : Pedro_H
Date : 4 September 2003
Review : Shrek is a green ogre who lives in a swamp, but his king sends him on a mission which he must complete to get his own land back.You only have to watch ten minutes of this film to realise that this is going to be a classic. Eddie Murphy being employed as a wisecracking donkey was a casting dream and plays well against the more plain Shrek, voiced by Mike Myers. Ok the plot is old, new, borrowed and blue (all recaps and references to fairy tales), but I don't care. It is all so much good fun and better than that, the kind of thing that can be enjoyed by young and old, male or female. It is really a dream of movie and some brilliant pop tunes are employed that really work fantastically against the images. Real tear-to-the-eye stuff.A real bliss-out of a movie and all parties should be congratulated for making it so great. A real DVD buyer, because it can be enjoyed over and over again. Bring on the follow up, I can't wait.
